README.md, before:

# Image Gallery 2

A modern, AI-powered image gallery application built with React, Vite, and Moondream. This application allows users to upload, organize, and analyze images using local AI models for captioning and tagging.

![Main Gallery](docs/images/main-gallery.png)

## Purpose

The goal of Image Gallery 2 is to provide a seamless and private way to manage image collections with the power of local AI. It features:
- **Local AI Analysis**: Uses Moondream to generate captions and tags for images without sending data to the cloud.
- **Adaptive Concurrency**: Dynamically adjusts AI processing load based on system performance to ensure responsiveness.
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Visualizes the AI processing queue and system resource usage.
- **Batch Processing**: Supports regenerating captions for multiple images simultaneously.

## Features

- **Smart Upload**: Automatically analyzes uploaded images for content.
- **Search & Filter**: Find images by keywords or captions.
- **Status Dashboard**: Monitor queue depth, active jobs, and processing speed.
- **Responsive Design**: Works beautifully on desktop and mobile.

![Image Details](docs/images/image-details.png)

## Requirements

To run this application, you need:

- **Node.js**: v18 or higher
- **Python**: v3.8 or higher (for Moondream station)
- **Moondream Station**: A local instance of the Moondream model server.

### Dependencies
- React 19
- Vite 6
- Tailwind CSS
- Recharts (for analytics)
- Lucide React (for icons)

## Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/bcoster22/Image-Gallery-2.git
    cd Image-Gallery-2
    ```

2.  **Install frontend dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up Moondream Station:**
    Ensure you have the `moondream-station` set up and running. Refer to the Moondream documentation for specific installation steps if not already configured.
    
    *Note: The application expects Moondream to be running on `http://localhost:2021`.*

## Configuration

The application features a comprehensive Admin Settings panel for configuring AI providers and system behavior. Click the **Gear Icon** in the sidebar to access these settings.

### AI Providers

Configure multiple AI providers to handle different tasks.

#### Local Providers
-   **Moondream Local**:
    -   **Endpoint**: Set the URL of your local Moondream server (default: `http://localhost:2021/v1`).
    -   *Best for: Private, offline image analysis.*
-   **ComfyUI**:
    -   **Mode**: Choose 'Local' or 'Hosted'.
    -   **Endpoint**: URL of your ComfyUI instance (default: `http://127.0.0.1:8188`).
    -   *Best for: Advanced image generation and editing.*

#### Cloud Providers
-   **Gemini (Google)**: Requires API Key. Supports Vision, Generation (Imagen), and Video (Veo).
-   **OpenAI**: Requires API Key. Supports Generation (DALL-E 3) and Text (GPT-4).
-   **Grok (xAI)**: Requires API Key. Supports Generation (Grok-2).
-   **Moondream Cloud**: Requires API Key.

### Routing & Fallbacks

You can define which provider handles specific tasks (Vision, Generation, Animation, etc.).
-   **Fallback Chains**: Assign multiple providers to a capability. If the first fails, the system automatically tries the next one in the list.
-   **Load Balancing**: Distribute workloads across different models for optimal performance.

### Performance

-   **Image Downscaling**: Automatically resize large images before analysis to improve speed and reduce token usage.
-   **Max Dimension**: Set the maximum pixel dimension for analyzed images.

## Running the Application

1.  **Start Moondream Station:**
    ```bash
    # Command may vary based on your installation
    ./moondream-station
    ```

2.  **Start the Development Server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

3.  **Open in Browser:**
    Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view the gallery.

## Usage

- **Upload Images**: Drag and drop images into the upload area.
- **View Details**: Click on an image to see its caption, tags, and metadata.
- **Regenerate Captions**: Select images and click "Regenerate" to update their AI analysis.
- **Monitor Status**: Check the "Status" page to see active jobs and queue performance.

![Batch Processing](docs/images/batch-processing.png)
![Notifications](docs/images/notifications.png)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: Update README with GPU monitoring and reset features

README.md, after:

# Image Gallery 2

A modern, AI-powered image gallery application built with React, Vite, and Moondream. This application allows users to upload, organize, and analyze images using local AI models for captioning and tagging.

![Main Gallery](docs/images/main-gallery.png)

## Purpose

The goal of Image Gallery 2 is to provide a seamless and private way to manage image collections with the power of local AI. It features:
- **Local AI Analysis**: Uses Moondream to generate captions and tags for images without sending data to the cloud.
- **Adaptive Concurrency**: Dynamically adjusts AI processing load based on system performance to ensure responsiveness.
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Visualizes the AI processing queue and system resource usage.
- **GPU Management**: Monitor GPU load, VRAM, and temperature. Includes a "Reset GPU" feature for troubleshooting.
- **Batch Processing**: Supports regenerating captions for multiple images simultaneously.

## Features

- **Smart Upload**: Automatically analyzes uploaded images for content.
- **Search & Filter**: Find images by keywords or captions.
- **Status Dashboard**: Monitor queue depth, active jobs, and processing speed.
- **Responsive Design**: Works beautifully on desktop and mobile.

![Image Details](docs/images/image-details.png)

## Requirements

To run this application, you need:

- **Node.js**: v18 or higher
- **Python**: v3.8 or higher (for Moondream station)
- **Moondream Station**: A local instance of the Moondream model server.

### Dependencies
- React 19
- Vite 6
- Tailwind CSS
- Recharts (for analytics)
- Lucide React (for icons)

## Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/bcoster22/Image-Gallery-2.git
    cd Image-Gallery-2
    ```

2.  **Install frontend dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up Moondream Station:**
    Ensure you have the `moondream-station` set up and running. Refer to the Moondream documentation for specific installation steps if not already configured.
    
    *Note: The application expects Moondream to be running on `http://localhost:2021`.*

## Configuration

The application features a comprehensive Admin Settings panel for configuring AI providers and system behavior. Click the **Gear Icon** in the sidebar to access these settings.

### AI Providers

Configure multiple AI providers to handle different tasks.

#### Local Providers
-   **Moondream Local**:
    -   **Endpoint**: Set the URL of your local Moondream server (default: `http://localhost:2021/v1`).
    -   *Best for: Private, offline image analysis.*
-   **ComfyUI**:
    -   **Mode**: Choose 'Local' or 'Hosted'.
    -   **Endpoint**: URL of your ComfyUI instance (default: `http://127.0.0.1:8188`).
    -   *Best for: Advanced image generation and editing.*

#### Cloud Providers
-   **Gemini (Google)**: Requires API Key. Supports Vision, Generation (Imagen), and Video (Veo).
-   **OpenAI**: Requires API Key. Supports Generation (DALL-E 3) and Text (GPT-4).
-   **Grok (xAI)**: Requires API Key. Supports Generation (Grok-2).
-   **Moondream Cloud**: Requires API Key.

### Routing & Fallbacks

You can define which provider handles specific tasks (Vision, Generation, Animation, etc.).
-   **Fallback Chains**: Assign multiple providers to a capability. If the first fails, the system automatically tries the next one in the list.
-   **Load Balancing**: Distribute workloads across different models for optimal performance.

### Performance

-   **Image Downscaling**: Automatically resize large images before analysis to improve speed and reduce token usage.
-   **Max Dimension**: Set the maximum pixel dimension for analyzed images.

## Running the Application

1.  **Start Moondream Station:**
    ```bash
    # Command may vary based on your installation
    ./moondream-station
    ```

2.  **Start the Development Server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

3.  **Open in Browser:**
    Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view the gallery.

## Usage

- **Upload Images**: Drag and drop images into the upload area.
- **View Details**: Click on an image to see its caption, tags, and metadata.
- **Regenerate Captions**: Select images and click "Regenerate" to update their AI analysis.
- **Regenerate Captions**: Select images and click "Regenerate" to update their AI analysis.
- **Monitor Status**: Check the "Status" page to see active jobs, queue performance, and GPU health.
- **Reset GPU**: If the GPU becomes unresponsive, use the "Reset GPU" button on the Status page (requires setup).

![Batch Processing](docs/images/batch-processing.png)
![Notifications](docs/images/notifications.png)

## License

MIT
