docs/GENERATION_STUDIO_AND_BACKEND_STATUS.md, before:

# Generation Studio & Moondream Station Status (Dec 2025)

## Overview
This document outlines the recent fixes and current operational status of the Generation Studio (Frontend) and Moondream Station (Backend).

## Generation Studio (Frontend) Fixes
The "Play" button in the Generation Studio (PromptSubmissionModal) was previously failing to apply user settings or handle errors correctly. The following fixes have been applied:
1.  **Queue Processing**: `App.tsx` was modified to correctly pass `generationSettings` (Model, Steps, CFG Scale, etc.) from the queue task to the `aiService`. Previously, these settings were dropped, causing the backend to use defaults.
2.  **Settings Propagation**: The `PromptSubmissionModal` now correctly packages `advancedSettings` into the `QueueItem` data.
3.  **Visual Feedback**: The Generation Player correctly queues "Processing" notifications.

## Moondream Station (Backend) Architecture
The backend is currently running a customized server script: `rest_server_temp_5.py`. This script unifies the original Moondream Vision capabilities with a robust SDXL generation backend.

### Key Features
-   **SDXL Integration**: Uses `scripts/backend_fixed.py` to handle `/v1/generate` requests. Supports multiple SDXL models (Juggernaut, RealVis, CyberRealistic, etc.) via local checkpoint loading.
-   **Resilient Startup**: The server startup logic has been patched to be **resilient to Vision Model failures**. If the `InferenceService` (Moondream-2) fails to load (missing files or configuration errors), the server **logs a warning instead of crashing**. This ensures that Image Generation capabilities (SDXL) remain available even if Vision features are degraded.
-   **Main Block Restoration**: The `rest_server_temp_5.py` script was updated to validly import `ConfigManager` and `ManifestManager` to ensure standalone execution.

### How to Run
#### 1. Backend
Execute the custom server script (Port 2020):
```bash
# From project root
python3 rest_server_temp_5.py
```
*Note: This script handles OOM prevention and smart model loading.*

#### 2. Frontend
Standard Vite development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

## Known Issues
-   **Moondream Vision**: The local Moondream-2 vision model may fail to start if model files are missing from `~/.moondream-station`. The server logs this as a warning.
-   **Model Downloads**: Users must ensure SDXL checkpoints are present in `~/.moondream-station/models/sdxl-checkpoints` (or mapped equivalent) for them to be selectable in the UI.

## Recent Changes
-   Updated `rest_server_temp_5.py`: Added main execution block, fixed imports (`moondream_station.core.config.ConfigManager`), and added fail-safe logic for `InferenceService.start()`.

## System Diagnostics & Auto Fix
A new comprehensive diagnostics module has been verified.
- **Frontend Checks**: Browser storage, WebGL, Database integrity, API Keys.
- **Backend Checks**: Model file integrity, GPU Persistence, Ghost VRAM.
- **Auto Fix**: Automated repair for common issues (e.g. enabling Nvidia Persistence Mode).
    - **Setup**: One-click configuration via Diagnostics UI (requires sudo password once).
    - **Security**: Uses a restricted wrapper script (`apply_system_fixes.py`) with specific sudoers permissions.

Commit message:

Fix: Slideshow idle trigger, Performance page crash, and Enhance job submission. Updated docs.

docs/GENERATION_STUDIO_AND_BACKEND_STATUS.md, after:

# Generation Studio & Moondream Station Status (Jan 2026)

## Overview
This document outlines the recent fixes and current operational status of the Generation Studio (Frontend) and Moondream Station (Backend).

## Recent Critical Fixes (Jan 2026)
### 1. Job Submission & Enhance Studio
- **Fixed:** 'Enhance' tasks were failing to process because the queue processor did not recognize the `enhance` task type.
- **Resolution:** Updated `useQueueProcessor.ts` to route `enhance` tasks through the generation pipeline.
- **Improved:** Added detailed error logging to the queue processor catch block for better debugging.
- **Fallback:** Patched `aiService.ts` to automatically route 'editing' requests to 'generation' providers if no specific editing provider is configured, ensuring compatibility with legacy settings.

### 2. Slideshow Toggle
- **Fixed:** The Slideshow Toggle was enabling the state but not triggering the slideshow loop.
- **Resolution:** Re-implemented the missing `idleTimer` logic in `App.tsx`. The slideshow now automatically starts after **10 seconds** of inactivity when enabled.

### 3. Performance Page Crash
- **Fixed:** The "Performance & Benchmarks" page was crashing (Black Screen).
- **Resolution:** Removed an invalid dynamic `require` statement in `PerformanceOverview.tsx` and replaced it with a proper top-level import.

## Generation Studio (Frontend) Fixes (Dec 2025)
The "Play" button in the Generation Studio (PromptSubmissionModal) was previously failing to apply user settings or handle errors correctly. The following fixes have been applied:
1.  **Queue Processing**: `App.tsx` was modified to correctly pass `generationSettings` (Model, Steps, CFG Scale, etc.) from the queue task to the `aiService`. Previously, these settings were dropped, causing the backend to use defaults.
2.  **Settings Propagation**: The `PromptSubmissionModal` now correctly packages `advancedSettings` into the `QueueItem` data.
3.  **Visual Feedback**: The Generation Player correctly queues "Processing" notifications.

## Moondream Station (Backend) Architecture
The backend is currently running a customized server script: `rest_server_temp_5.py`. This script unifies the original Moondream Vision capabilities with a robust SDXL generation backend.

### Key Features
-   **SDXL Integration**: Uses `scripts/backend_fixed.py` to handle `/v1/generate` requests. Supports multiple SDXL models (Juggernaut, RealVis, CyberRealistic, etc.) via local checkpoint loading.
-   **Resilient Startup**: The server startup logic has been patched to be **resilient to Vision Model failures**. If the `InferenceService` (Moondream-2) fails to load (missing files or configuration errors), the server **logs a warning instead of crashing**. This ensures that Image Generation capabilities (SDXL) remain available even if Vision features are degraded.
-   **Main Block Restoration**: The `rest_server_temp_5.py` script was updated to validly import `ConfigManager` and `ManifestManager` to ensure standalone execution.

### How to Run
#### 1. Backend
Execute the custom server script (Port 2020):
```bash
# From project root
python3 rest_server_temp_5.py
```
*Note: This script handles OOM prevention and smart model loading.*

#### 2. Frontend
Standard Vite development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

## Known Issues
-   **Moondream Vision**: The local Moondream-2 vision model may fail to start if model files are missing from `~/.moondream-station`. The server logs this as a warning.
-   **Model Downloads**: Users must ensure SDXL checkpoints are present in `~/.moondream-station/models/sdxl-checkpoints` (or mapped equivalent) for them to be selectable in the UI.

## Recent Changes
-   Updated `rest_server_temp_5.py`: Added main execution block, fixed imports (`moondream_station.core.config.ConfigManager`), and added fail-safe logic for `InferenceService.start()`.

## System Diagnostics & Auto Fix
A new comprehensive diagnostics module has been verified.
- **Frontend Checks**: Browser storage, WebGL, Database integrity, API Keys.
- **Backend Checks**: Model file integrity, GPU Persistence, Ghost VRAM.
- **Auto Fix**: Automated repair for common issues (e.g. enabling Nvidia Persistence Mode).
    - **Setup**: One-click configuration via Diagnostics UI (requires sudo password once).
    - **Security**: Uses a restricted wrapper script (`apply_system_fixes.py`) with specific sudoers permissions.
